ladies and gentlemen please welcome coco
and developer tools evangelist matthew
Formica thank you everyone I want to
welcome you this afternoon to
introduction to Xcode many of you were
at Ted Goldstein's keynote yesterday
afternoon where you saw some of the new
things we're doing an Xcode this session
is going to continue that diving down a
little bit further into how Xcode works
and how you can use it before we get
started though a couple points to
mention a contest was announced
yesterday an opportunity for you to
bring Thursday evening to the Xcode
table on Apple Campus your application
building and running in Xcode this is
more than hello world but bring your
application to the Xcode area and you
can sign in and you will get a free
t-shirt the next code shirt the other
point I would mention as we're getting
started is there if you go to connect a
calm there are some supplementary
release notes about Xcode two point O
associated with Ted's keynote in a disk
image session 300 you can download those
late late breaking news announcements as
i said this session is about an
introduction next code it's going to
talk about some of the new features that
we've added it's also going to give you
an overview of the ide to help round out
your knowledge of some of the errors you
might not be as familiar with Xcode has
been innovating very rapidly over the
last year and the manager of the exco
team is here with us to go into the
details I'd like to if you could join me
in welcoming mat for elec manager of the
echo team
thanks man things have changed a little
bit since you were here last year so
let's go into little information about
where Xcode stands today actually since
I can still see the audience show of
hands how many people are using Xcode
today in some management reform holy cow
how many are using new version that you
just install the tiger come on more
thrill seekers all right so before we
start threatening you with what's new
let's talk about what Xcode is Xcode is
Apple's integrated development
environment for developing software on
the platform going a little bit of
detail about what it is but let's talk
about what this thing is that you're
using and how it got here last year at
wwc we released a preview of a software
on Jaguar and panther and we released
the first version at the same time that
Panther shift who's a lot of features
fix and continue distributed builds 0
link number of great great features to
help you get up to speed we released
that one in October we follow that one
up with one xcode one not one in
december some bug fix releases improved
sdk support trying to get you the latest
and greatest just before christmas
because we know you're all working hard
right about then follow that up with
xcode one not two how many of you have
one dot to installed excellent one not
two was what we like to consider to
enhance performance release stability
lots of polish on the IDE but what we're
here today to talk about our two new
releases and to be very clear we are
talking about two releases Xcode 15 on
Panther and Xcode 20 on tiger so you
actually have two pieces of software on
the DVD that you have with tiger comes a
version of xcode 20 but we also have
available xcode one dot five for you to
run on Panther it's available for 80s on
ADC sites for download also if you go to
the labs we have disk images of both of
these or you can drag them on your
machines and go ahead and install them
so for the thrill seekers that want to
be on tiger we have software but for
those people who want to stay on Panther
we also have something for you to look
at so x 1 dot 5 is a beta release
includes a number of features faster
editing a better support for indexing
remote debugging a lot of other great
debugging capabilities
X go to 0 is the same feature set but
includes a little bit more things like
design tools things like workspace
layoffs which we'll get into in a little
bit so that's where we stand today let's
talk about what this thing is we're an
integrated development environment so
let's let's figure out what that means
let's take the environment first Mac
os10 living on xcode 10 shift on Panther
so it's moving on that and forward with
sdk support though you can develop for
any of the x10 releases for the platform
lots of language support all the sea
dialects java scripting languages like
apple script and shell scripting lots of
different products to whether it's an
application your libraries your plugins
your frameworks lots of different
functional in its application and we're
trying to cater to a lot of different
people here but we're trying to do so in
a way that makes it feel like but it's
part of the platform so we're including
things like user interface paradigms
that you've seen all over the place
search fields inspectors smart lists of
things things that you're used to seeing
and in very the ease of use applications
the mac OS 10 or to bring those to you
in the development environment to make
it as easy as possible for you to work
let's talk about development what does
it mean to be development what are the
things that we're including to try and
make things a little bit easier for you
to be development environment really
requires a number of things first is
workflow and management there are a lot
of things other than source code and
compiling things that that are really
important to your daily life project
organization project management dealing
with conflicts from source source
control management systems all sorts of
big issues work slow where the buttons
are how I get to them how I get to one
from one place to another these are all
very very key issues that we try to
address an Xcode source code editing I
want to edit my source code file but I
want to do in a particular way I want a
certain color certain spot size I want
the buttons in the right place I want
things that my fingertips are key
bindings all sorts of different and
intricate things that really are
important to us as individual developers
to get our work done but then also the
ability to provide things like
assistance and documentation we've got a
wealth of knowledge a wealth of
information that both about your product
and the api's you're trying to use and
how we bring those to you in a seamless
and easy way is
important to us as it is to you let's
talk about some of these things first in
Xcode to point out on tiger you'll
notice some new workflows sonu what we
call workspace layout Xcode has a
traditional layout which you've all seen
up until this point we've included a
couple different ones to try and and
give you the ease of use that you're
looking for because we know that there's
an extreme breadth of different
different ways of developing I want to
call it religious but in some cases it
sort of is one of these is an all-in-one
works workspace be able to have
everything that you've ever wanted all
in one window so per project you have
one window you have four projects you
have for windows but there are people
that really would like something else
and they want something that's a little
more condensed but so they have lots of
windows so a very very compact project
view but having lots of editor windows
or lots of other ancillary window to
your project so we try and give you both
extremes of lots of things or many
things are very few things depending on
who you are and you can see these in the
new workspace labs in the 20 version
other things that you can see our new
attached editors so things like the
build results window the fine window the
ability to attach an editor to the
bottom so that as you're in the middle
of doing something as you're in the
middle at work flow and you just want to
see a file I just want to change one
thing or scroll and see something you
don't have to get out of that particular
mindset of context you can do it right
there customizable views things like
being able to take the headers or the
columns that are displayed in a certain
place and do just the things you want or
add things that you want for a
particular workflow things like SCM
above information to target management
the size of code whether it needs to be
rebuilt errors and warnings all sorts of
things to allow you to customize the
view to the way you work when you need
it but also things like customizable key
bindings I'm sure there are lots of
people in here that love emacs or level
particular program where it's all done
right here you know exactly what if
someone says build you don't think of an
action you think of a finger stroke or
some some way of grabbing the keyboard
to do something that's important we love
our mics we love our widgets but the
ability to get something done to use
that muscle memory is extremely
important to us
Xcode implements a key binding support
to allow you to use key bindings from
other popular applications or to
customize the key bindings if you find
something more convenient and you'll see
that in a little bit but also simple
things like an activity viewer this
application does a lot of things build
it finds it indexes and that makes
julienne fries it does all sorts of
things but how do you know what's going
on providing something very very simple
like an activity viewer to show you all
the things that are going on give you
the ability to stop them or change them
it's very very important to us and so
it's added that in the new versions over
and above just managing your project and
deal with some of the niceties it's it's
getting into your project it's figuring
out what I want to do or how I want to
do it so Xcode includes the number of
things like project templates and
assistance help you get up to speed pick
the type of application or the type of
thing you're trying to build whether
it's a cocoa application or an automator
stage or any of these things just go
ahead and grab one of the assistants and
get up to speed very very quickly
inspectors once you want you're looking
at something you probably want to change
things you probably want to modify
values you probably want to tweak it
just a little bit so that the name name
looks a little different or at a
different setting inspectors are very
very familiar paradigm and we use them
all over the place on xcode to try and
give you that ease of use to make things
very very familiar but also very very
flexible listing information is very
complex where you want things to go how
you want things to be viewed can be very
very difficult and there are things like
the whole smart concept smart playlists
in itunes they keep track of things you
looked at last or mail folders the keep
track of some heuristic we were doing
this last year smart smart groups the
ability to look at something based on a
particular element whether it's a file
name or the type of thing you're looking
at whether it's a fine result or it's an
SEM information smart smart things let x
co do the work for you you just take the
benefit of being able to go there very
very quickly and take advantage of it
when your projects get big and we know
they do it's the ability to go ahead and
search and find things filter things
down get access to things it's that one
file or that one method you can't find
that you'll sit there for minutes just
getting frustrated and then sometimes go
to the terminal and use grep to find the
file is in I
necessary echo provides a lot of
functionality to help you find things
but find files find methods fine
functions find the things that you need
get to them quickly get on with your
life once you get there though it's what
do i do is it the concept of source code
editing of providing you the ability to
use different kinds of editors whether
it's an editor inside of one window or
lots of external editors in different
applications using the things that
you're used to in getting the
functionality that you want things like
file editing history we able to be able
to go back and forth between a number of
files very very quickly if you're
looking an implementation file or a
definition and go back to the
declaration or pop between three or four
files if they're all related these are
things that are relatively easy to do
and we provide them for you function
pop-ups be able to introspect a source
code filed show you what's in it give
you a quick access to jump to a
particular point in your file also
things like counterparts and inclusions
we know all sorts of things about your
project by virtue of having it indexed
we can show you things like oh I know
where that other file is I know where
the header is for this particular
element or I know all the files that
happen to include the one you're in so
if you make a change here we make it
easy to go to the other ones little tiny
things intuitive things that we provide
right at your fingertips even things
like an annotated gutter when you build
any of problems or errors and warnings
we know where they're from we know
specifically where they're from we make
it very very easy to get back to those
places get those things fixed and get on
with the things you need I mentioned
editor support a little bit we also have
support for external editors popular
editors like bbedit sub Aoife edit you
can text edit if you like use those as
your standard editor if that's your
preferred method of editing your source
code file but take all advantage of the
rest of xcode allow you to use that
functionality and work through your
projects once you start working again
there's lots of assistance we can
provide and we've done a lot to take
what we call code sense are really to
take a symbolic index to their source
code and provide a tool in useful ways
one way you saw last year in xcode one
auto is code completion the ability to
take of a symbol rich information and
say you know what contextually in my
source code file I'm right here help me
help me with this I don't know the
method I'm looking for forget the
function name I know there's a variable
but I can't remember what it is the
ability to provide that to your finger
it I'm very pleased to announce that
last year we mentioned that we're going
to do it for all the sea dialects today
we have it for java so all the java
developers here you have code completion
map also things like design tools if
you're in a seesaw heads keynote
yesterday saw the ability to take source
code is you have and design it look at
models of it take an overview of it not
just from how its implemented but it's a
management tool it's a design tool as a
way to work with other developers and
say you know this is the kind of thing
I'm looking for very very powerful tools
built on stuff that again we already
know about your source code so it's not
work you have to do it's just something
you can take advantage of also things
like something simple like open quickly
we know there are lots of things on your
system we know there's lots of places
you want to look for things we help you
with that by giving you the ability to
specify you know regardless of what
project i'm in i want you to look all
over here to add 2x codes per view just
a list of all sorts of things but you
want to have access to so again make it
very very easy to keep track of those
things but make sure that they're right
at your fingertips when you need them
and certainly not least documentation we
have the pleasure of having lots of lots
of very very good and rich documentation
on both our api's our tools and all
sorts of different functionality and
this is integrated into Xcode there's
full API and full-text searching so you
can type in whatever you're looking for
whether it's a particular method or a
particular class and find what you're
looking for all the reference materials
all the tutorials right at your
fingertips with quick navigation with
different keystrokes to get right to it
from your source code but also the
abilities new ability and the New Mexico
releases of bookmarking it of waiting
all the way down to the depths of the
documentation being able to market and
say you know this is important to me I
want to get back here so we've included
bookmarks in that but I think that's
enough talking about some of the basic
things let's just go through a quick
demo of some of those project navigation
elements
so what we're looking at here is I'm
going to open up a simple app it's
called blast F and it's actually a java
application so we're going to go ahead
and open this up using the old the older
style workspace just as an example here
malossi it's divided into two main
elements we've got the the outline view
on the left hand side which lists a
hierarchical view of your application or
your project gives you the ability to
structure your project in any way shape
or form these are groups that you can
create you can drag files into any group
that you want to regardless of where
they're on the file system allowing you
to organize your project maybe the way
you think about it not the way it's laid
out on disk what you'll note that the
needs that are some of the elements that
we call smart groups the ability to do
something interesting with content about
your project for you things like errors
and warnings spying results bookmarks
other full smart folders that we create
for you the ability to take this
information and pry it your fingertips
now as you click through things on the
left hand side and the outline view
they're going to show up in the detail
view on the right hand side there's a
flat table view of all the content that
are inside those groups this makes it
very easy to navigate and look for
things whereas the hierarchy gives you
structure allows you to compartmentalize
things it also requires that you have
lots of hierarchy potentially lots of
hierarchy that where you don't want to
find something that was way down at the
bottom you'd have to go through and
twiddle open all the folders and
potentially close them all back up but
with the detail view you just go ahead
and select something and we'll show you
the aggregate of the selection on the
right-hand side so as I select different
folders will start to see that the
contents of those folders appear on the
right hand side making it very easy to
look at different kinds of things now
this is particularly useful in these
little smart folders we have down here
which are actually folders we've set up
to look at a particular type of file
especially a rule that we we ask you to
filter on in this case the first one is
nude filed so we're just going to show
the new files here on the right hand
side the next one its implementation
files and in this case I only see one
unfortunately our default implementation
file smarter filters on mah well I don't
have that M&H I have dot Java in my
application here so let me just go ahead
and add a new smart group here to show
you how easy it is to get something
particularly powerful so I'm just going
to go ahead and call this Java file and
I'm going to change the pattern here to
instead of being start nibbling
start java and you see that instantly
there are all the java files in my
application or my project maybe I want
to do something a little more
interesting in this case the blasts app
has a bunch of what are called smart
elements so I can just use March star
Java and there's a particular set of
files now that may not seem relatively
powerful with the ability to hone this
down and say you know today I'm working
on just these files there's spread all
over across my project but I want them
in one place I want them a simple place
that I can go and get access to them
make it very easy to go ahead and create
those additionally we can actually save
these on a per project or on for all
your projects on a per-user basis so
where you to find something you find
really really useful you can go ahead
and set this up once and all of your
projects take advantage of it once we're
looking at files though it's important
to note that as I said before we're
going to show an aggregate of the
selection over here on the right hand
side so as I were to select for example
your interfaces here and then ctrl click
and click on resources we're showing the
aggregate of a selection so are showing
the elements from both of these merge
together now this is particularly useful
when it comes to something like find so
we'll just go ahead and open up the
batch finds panel here in the project
and I'm going to go ahead and search for
let's search for something like smart so
this is doing a textual search in my
project and it found 58 occurrences and
it's actually going to list all 58 over
here in the fine window but also it's
going to list them over here in my find
results so it's going to keep track of
finds that I've done before we get back
to them very quickly and easily you can
see here that's going to show you the
line that the file that that particular
match came on and it's going to show you
the location so i can do a quick fine
that way let's actually go to ahead go
ahead and do another one let's call this
one this is the blast tablets call it
explode go ahead and do another search
this is going to complete and we see
that we had 88 occurrences again there's
the results over here in my find results
marker that I can view but now what
becomes really compelling it's be able
to select both of these at the same time
and use the filter field that we have up
here to go ahead and refine this content
so i could go ahead and type in the word
let's just do missile base here and we
see that here are all the instances in
files that match missile base that have
either explode or smart
them making it really easy to find the
things you're looking for hone it down
refine it get access to it change it and
get on with your life so in addition to
some of these file-based smart groups we
also have things like project symbols so
the project symbol smart group takes the
contents from the symbolic index that we
have about this project and shows us a
list so i can scroll down through the
list here of all the different symbols
that are in this project and I have the
same capabilities of being able to
filter on it so I can filter by name and
let's just go ahead again look for the
word explode and apparently everything
in this app explodes so I could search
by name they may not be as interesting
let's go ahead and take that out and
change the search to search by something
like symbol type and I can go ahead and
type in something like class and get all
the class methods very easily again
quickly works through the vast amount of
information we have about your project
get you access to something very very
quickly so again these smart groups give
you access to information let's talk
about doing something with this
particular information let's go ahead
and edit something so so far I've been
working just in the project view of the
outline view and the detail view here
say we wanted to go ahead and edit a
file well there's a number of different
ways we can do that the first one is to
use what we call the embedded editor I'm
just going to drag up this little
splitter here and you see that an editor
window is right in the middle here and
as I go through and select other
elements from you know the list chair I
can select different files you know that
they just pop right into the editor so i
can select as many as I want or I do
want to go back to one of them I have
this nice little history pop up here
where I can move back and forth between
different files and select the one that
i'm particularly looking for next to
that once we have a file we have
something called the function pop up
which revives you quick access to see
will appear the methods in this
particular file I can go ahead and
select one of them and jump right to it
be able to get right to the things you
want right back to the things you need a
feature that probably is not used as
much as it could be by people as the
ability to create bookmarks we do all
the time in Safari which is all over the
place you can do it in source code we've
had it for a while and in fact that it's
so easy it's the same keystroke as
safari so command D I'm just going to go
ahead and select a line here and hit
command D you see a little sheet comes
down and says
enter the name for the bookmark I'll
just put in front of here that this is a
comment but maybe I want to go back and
edit later scroll up to the top of the
file and maybe put in another one where
this is we'll just call this copyright
go ahead and create that and now you'll
note that I'm right here this is little
bookmark pop up but I can now just move
back and forth between elements in my
source code files very quickly and very
easily makes it easy to do things
outside of your source code but get back
to the things you want very quickly and
easily for some people though this is
not enough real estate to edit no matter
how big I make this or I want this I
want something a little bit different so
in addition to providing the internal
editor we can also provide a separate
editor I can go ahead and double-click
on a source code file and you note that
it pops up in this separate window I can
go ahead and do that for a number of
other files just bring up as many files
as I want here and I can get all the
windows that I could ever possibly want
but now comes a big question how many
windows are too many at this point we
have force for windows for editing and
then screens getting a little bit
cluttered so we provide you the
functionality to tail your workflow in
such a way that if I close some of these
other windows and go back to the first
one I see that I have a little tiled
editing mode button up here when I click
it it becomes a single window such that
if I go through and now open some more
files you'll note that they all appear
in that one window so we allow you to
say whether you want all of your stuff
in the project window you want all your
stuff in separate windows or you want
one separate window to put all of your
source code in making it easy to move
back and forth between different pieces
of source code so now we've got source
code let's do something interesting with
it so as I've mentioned before we now
support code completion for java so
little here's a little bit of java code
in the arrow based class i'm just going
to go ahead and just going to move this
code down a little bit get myself some
room here and say that i was just typing
this for the first time so pretend this
doesn't exist here but use this as a
reference for what I'm going to start
typing in I could just go ahead and
start typing you know game piece and you
see the ability to not type when you're
up on stage is pretty prevalent so what
I want to do is this next in its next
case let's say all right I have this
this arrow element I should I should
kneel the type I feel
use something I know about this by the
virtue of the fact that the project
knows all kinds of things about the
aerial class so i could just go ahead
and hit the code completion key and it's
going to go ahead and bring up a list of
things you'll notice the bottom of the
completion pop-up it says game piece it
knows what type it is and it's showing
me things that match that in this case
it's showing me all the elements that
seemed appropriate based on the letter i
that i typed in in this case what i want
is being knit king in this in Game
method so i can just arrow down or i can
use the mouse to select that it's going
to automatically select the placeholder
for me and i can type that in i can also
do something like the next one where i
know that the arrow also has a lots of
set methods and i can go ahead and set
the velocity and in this case it's a new
and a size but now i might get here and
realized you know I don't know what I
don't know what a menace size is I don't
actually know how to use this at this
point we can use the fact that we have
lots of documentation lots of API
reference to figure out what these
things are we also have two key strokes
that are particularly useful but I think
most people don't realize it first but
once they do feel like they can't live
without those our command double-click
an option double click if I command
double click on NS sighs what it's
actually gonna go do is bring up a list
of all the things in the symbol index
that match that and allow me to go ahead
and select one and take me right through
it in this case it's not necessarily
very interesting the implementation
doesn't really do very much here so
let's instead do an option double click
which is going to bring up our
documentation window automatically put
NS size up here in the upper right find
some matches and automatically show me
one of them and that's the one I'd be
looking for would be the Java reference
implementation for NS sighs this is a
very very handy window if you've never
used it before I implore you to go ahead
and grab the help menu and pull up the
documentation the ability to look based
on groups ability to take my search and
click on a library and refine that
search to that particular set we were
looking the driver's wheel looking Java
and refine this search but also the
ability to change my search from in this
case we're looking at AP is maybe I want
to do a full text search of anything
that has anything and everything to do
with NS size so go ahead and enter that
hit return and we're going to go ahead
and search all these locations doing
relevant searches on all the content
here would actually want to go down and
pull up a particular class I could say
ah this is the one I've been looking for
for so long I could just go ahead add a
bookmark to it and it's going to pier
right there so allows me quick access to
go back to it later full suite of
documentation right at your fingertips
very very easy to use so you've seen
some code completion let's talk a little
bit about indexing in general you've had
a lot of feedback on indexing we've
listened we've done some things about it
we've given you code completion for java
we've improved the indexing speed in
general and our accuracy in our parsers
but probably the most request feature
we've put indexing on a background
thread so now as we parse your source
code that's all going to be done on a
background thread it's not going to
interfere with you it's not going to
bother you go ahead and go about your
daily work when the index is done you
won't even know it because they won't
even have been bothering it but we've
includes improve the speed in general
and I'd what I'd like to do is show you
an example of how that looks so what I'm
going to do is I'm actually gonna bring
up something I mentioned before which is
the activity window I'm going to sit
down here in the lower right and the
activity window is going to show me
things that are going on in my
application now in this case what I want
to do is actually show you the indexing
so i'm going to go ahead and bring up
the project inspector and i'm going to
go ahead and bring up the code sense tab
and you see that there's this local
button here called rebuild index now i'm
sure most of you are sitting there going
he's talking to press that easy he's not
actually going to try and rebuild a java
index for a project on stage AZ that
takes forever doesn't it if it's going
to work for you it's got to work for me
up here so i watch the activity viewing
the lower right i'm gonna go ahead and
click rebuild index it's going to ask me
if I really want to do this do I so I'm
going to go ahead and click okay we're
gonna see the project in your sis starts
up and wait that can't that can't have
worked let me go back here to my project
symbol just make sure that well we
actually do have project symbols we seem
like heaven before let's just make sure
let's look it'll pull up the class
browser here this will be the true test
well we've got the class browser here
let's make sure we do have the well yeah
we did you have all the JDK information
all right so to prove you that this is
not sleight of hand this is not I'm not
making this up I'm going to go ahead and
disable indexing from a turn this off
and you'll know that both of these
windows go away Todd's I no longer
content I can't Coco complete I can't do
anything because i have no more index so
now i'm going to go back when the
activity wind over here to the front go
ahead and click on enable indexing and
see that the project in dexter starts up
and all lo and behold there was my
project symbols i can go back here and
again i'm not making this up so there's
the jdk now to be honest this is using a
lot of capabilities of Xcode we have
index templates we have updated parsers
we have all sorts of things that make
this possible but indexing should no
longer be a burden on you it should be
something you guys all want to use all
want to take advantage of one final
thing I want to talk about with just
general workflow is the ability to set
key bindings an off or a seldom-used
control panel or a preference here is
the key bindings the ability to go in
and select the key binding for xcode or
for another ide and be able to go
through and set things here all the menu
items and hear all the key bindings the
ability to go ahead and double click on
one of those and set it to whatever you
want I would encourage you guys to go
ahead and look here because it also
shows you a list of all the things that
are available in Xcode all the different
functions all those features customize
it to your will make it the way you want
very very useful feature so that's just
a quick overview of some of the project
management and navigation elements let's
take a look at some of the other parts
of Xcode I would implore you that
there's an East increasing productivity
session tomorrow in this very room at
two o'clock which goes into a lot of
these details one of these elements
rather and much much more detail so it
encourage you guys to come to that if
you're interested in this content we
talked about the environment we've
talked about development let's talk
about integration because that's what
Xcode is about is integrating all sorts
of really great features into an IDE
there are all sorts of things we have to
pull together to make the development
possible
build system debugger source control
management tools profiling tools these
are all things that we can add ins and
leveraged from our platform to give you
advantages to give you things to get
your work done the first one is an
integrated build system this is kind of
key we have a system that takes a
project model and implements the idea of
targets targets are instructions or sets
of things to create something or do
something and we have lots of different
support for different kinds of targets
we spent a lot of time creating
something which we call the native build
system native support for creating
projects native being that we meet
control things we have lots of ability
to do really good dependency analysis
and give you all sorts of benefit we
have support for the same jam targets
that project builder had and we also
have external target support for things
like make an ant the ability to do
something outside of xcode would still
take advantage of the xcode build system
and there are all kinds of different
aspects of the build system where you
have products and executable lots of
different ways to customize your
application customize your project to
get the things that you want a good deal
is a build system is customizing it to
suit your needs to do the things that
you want the ability to take and inspect
settings both on your project on your
targets set compiler options that build
flags and coatings on files get the
things that you want in the way that you
want them and we'll take a look at some
of the inspectors for this in a little
bit but there are lots of lots of
different features to the build system
that provide lots of great functionality
as I mentioned before that's the ability
to provide you inline errors and
warnings to show you in your source code
where things are going wrong allow you
to change them and keep them back up to
speed get your application running again
smart groups of errors and warnings to
keep track of those things as you make
changes but even a detailed build log
for those who like to live on the
bleeding edge to see the absolute honest
truth of what's going on and filters
through all the content to see exactly
what's happening with your application
the village to manage source trees
working between applications and saying
here's where my all my sources are and I
want to manage this across a number of
different people even though we have
different structures on our machines
shared build locations so I can build
something once and everybody can take
advantage of it or I can use it across
multiple projects and the ability to use
SDKs the ability to say I'm on
this platform but I want to build for a
different one very very powerful very
compelling feature but in the end it's
all about performance it's all about
saying you know this this is the heart
of the matter if it takes too long it's
not useful not helpful and what we've
tried to do is implement a number of
features to give you the green light to
make sure that for build performance is
not an issue for you so the first one of
these is sportful precompiled headers
the fact is we no matter how big our
applications are the amount of
information we're pulling in from other
resources from frameworks and libraries
out Lazar's by perhaps an order of
magnitude or more our applications are
this small when you compare it to all
the stuff that's being compiled in there
the ability to freakin precompile us and
say you know i know i'm going to need
them why wait till i want to compile i
have to get them pre-compiled ahead or
get it out of the way take it out of the
way because that's not what you need to
worry about which even worry about is a
stuff in your project so freaking house
headers get you get a lot of that
bottleneck out of the way and get it
done ahead of time we're also the notion
of predictive compilation as again as
you're working with your file you're
editing you know this much but there's
these include at the top the ability to
go ahead and start to compiler up and
say you know I'm editing this file go
ahead and take care of the things that
probably aren't going to change yet go
ahead and figure that out so that when i
hit swing it safe all we're going to do
is just process the rest of it compile
has already sitting there the cars
already warmed up where you go ahead and
process that and get it out of your way
so that by the time you actually go and
hits a build hammer to go ahead and take
your application and put it all together
we've already done most of the work and
so the turnaround time for single file
edit is very very small get things up to
speed get you on one with life something
we also introduced called zero link the
ability to just take the link step out
of the way to dynamically loaded up the
elements that you need as you need them
when your application starts up you may
not need everything so why try and link
it well I spend that time overhead early
let's just do it later so we're going to
reduce the linking step down to a very
very small fraction and then distributed
builds the ability to say I've got all
these machines we do take advantage of
the fact that if you have two processors
will do parallel compilations so you get
twice as much but what about all those
other processes are sitting out there
all those other machines that are
potentially Idol we want you to take
advantage of those so distributed build
allow you to take advantage of all sorts
of machines heterogeneous homogeneous in
vironment whatever you have will take
advantage of those start sending the
files out across the wire letter then
compile and bring them back so we do
that we do the pre compilation for the
headers and the linking on your machine
but we only do those wants so you take
care of those send everything out and
bring it all back so I want to go
through a quick demo of some of the
build system features what I'm going to
do is actually change applications on
you here at the moment we have native
support for the sea based languages not
for java although we are working on that
so i'm going to go ahead and open up an
opengl app here called bullying i'm sure
this is matthew guys all seen before
just has an opengl rendering of a little
bouncing ball that will seem a little
bit as i mentioned before we have
elements like inspectors that can go
ahead and look at different attributes
on a file so i can just go ahead and
select one of the files here in the
detail view bring it up and look at
different information i can see that
there's path information there's all
sorts of file encoding information it's
actually an additional compiler flags i
can send / file compiler flags which
make it very easy to customize on a
profile basis but one of the things
we've included in xcode as a result of
lots and lots of feedback is the ability
to do multiple selection for example
here's the directory structure for my
project and here's something that
perhaps a lot of people like to do is
say you know i want to create this
source folder and i want to grab a whole
bunch of files and i really want to put
them in here because that's really the
way I work with my project the problem
is you go back to your project and now
they're all red xcode says I don't know
what happened they they went somewhere
and normally you'd have to go through
and inspect each one and change them but
now we have support for the ability to
select multiples come up here to the
info window and you'll now see at the
top it says multiple item info we're
editing multiple at the same time I
could just go ahead and hit the choose
button go ahead and select the source
folder location and you know that they
all turn black again going to modify
multiple selections very very quickly in
these work now of course we all know
that our source code revision control
system would really not appreciate us
doing that so I'm going to go ahead and
take that back out and I'll play nice
and put them back to the way they were
but this multiple selection works both
on the file level and it also works on
the target level the ability to go ahead
and select
multiple targets for example and set the
same setting on multiple targets at the
same time so all the sorts of settings
you want you can set them now on a per
target basis or multiple target basis
rather as well let's go ahead and look
at the inspector for the target because
we've made some improvements here that
you guys also should see I'm going to go
ahead and go to the build settings tab
here from my target and we'll see that
here all the different build settings
for my particular target now you'll note
that one thing we've changed here is the
ability to look at collections or groups
of settings but that's what we're
looking at all of the settings but
there's this nice little pop up here or
i can now go through and say oh I want
to just look at the versioning flags or
I want to look at all of the everything
has to do with the compiler or something
that has to do with linking be able to
filter down the list to see just the
things you want in the way you want them
you'll also note that there's a setting
at the top for customized settings and
these all appear in bold these are
settings that you've customized or their
changed in your target from the defaults
so just a little bit of piece of
information here when you see the bold
settings if I go back to the all
settings and you see that there are some
in bold you know that these are ones
that have customized values you also
note that the ones with little strike
through those are ones that have been
overridden by your build style but
they'll be more on that in a later
session some other advancements we've
made in setting information here is the
ability to edit large settings for
example a product name well you're
probably not gonna have a really huge
name for this I could just go ahead and
click on this and change it right in
here but there may be settings that are
particularly large or need to be set for
example header search paths i may have
lots of header search pads and up until
this point you've added clicking here
and start typing and scrolling all the
way over and it was kind of like setting
the path back in Windows 95 we just had
to keep moving over and over and over we
apologize for that and now we've done is
giving you an edit settings button so
now what we're to do is bring up a table
view which you can go ahead and clicking
here and start adding different settings
you can also do nice things like I can
grab a folder from my project and do
that I could also go into the finer here
and grab a folder and bring that up to
be able to take large settings and
manage them in an easy way we also do
this for just plain string values so I
could go ahead and go back down here to
my product name and
go ahead and click the Edit settings and
I could make this as big as I want to
where am I asked to be named something
really large so build settings so quick
and easy way to go ahead and modify
information your project let's go ahead
and let's just actually go and build
this so I'm gonna do is I'm actually to
select the implementation files down
here just so that they're visible and
I'm going to go ahead and click the
build hammer so what this is going to do
is start building and you'll see that as
its building the size of the code is
going through here and you'll see that
we have different sizes here and look at
that build failed what a surprise so now
we need to figure out something happen
something is wrong with my build I need
to figure out what's going on there are
a number of different ways to do that
you see that we annotate the status bar
with the build information on both sides
we also note that they'll be errors and
warnings smart group is in red and if I
click on that I could see all the
details about what those are and where
the problems were I could also go to the
detail build log up under the build menu
here and see all the detailed build
results I'm gonna make this window a
little bit bigger and scroll this down
and it's the same information that you
saw before but what we're going to do is
just put in the detail build window and
for those who really want to see
everything we can scroll it up and see
here's exactly what happened through the
build and it's important though that
these windows actually track so we're I
to go and select an error up here we
actually highlights as the appropriate
line down here that shows where that
error was generated from so you can get
exactly down to all of your problems so
let's just figure out something what's
wrong with the apparently bboying view
class I'm going to go ahead and bring
that up in the editor here and you'll
note that we annotate a number of things
first we annotate the scroller here it
will give you access to where things
have gone wrong we can see who's gotta
wake up a couple of different spots here
and we also annotate the gutter for the
different elements so I can see if I
look at this first one here and I go
ahead and click on it you'll note that
the air comes up here and it says that
new is undeclared that's because that
really was meant to be know if I can go
ahead and fix that error I could scroll
down here to the bottom and say oh well
here's just a warning on something I
needed to do before i left that in there
I can just go ahead and take that out
let me scroll back up to the top here
and see what these other errors were
now again like a simple one here I just
forgot a semicolon maybe that will take
care of it so i'll go ahead and fix
those and click build again it's going
to go ahead and build it and click help
still didn't do it i still have this one
problem where there's this index default
value it doesn't it doesn't know where
it it's not declared anywhere that was
actually my fault i meant to actually
define that as a preprocessor macro so i
can just go back to my build settings
here and take advantage of this next
search field at the bottom and start
typing in preprocessor could just go
ahead and take this value here and put
it back over here paste it in say i
equals 0 now i should be able to go
ahead and build my application go ahead
and click compiled build succeeded quick
and easy way to find all the some of the
problems that are in your application
get on with just building it we also
have a number of other build features we
have the ability to compile a single
file to set up once to pre-process it
where you actually want to see what the
assembly code looks like for your
particular file you can actually go
ahead and do that and here's the
assembly for what this particular file
would look like so that's just a quick
overview of some of the build system
features there are other sessions on the
build system later on in the week
actually one tomorrow at three-thirty in
this very room the increasing
productivity with xcode to which i
encourage you guys to go to if you want
to learn more about the build system so
let's learn more about xcode and this
time going into the debugger go back to
the slide please
debugging is also important once you've
built your application you need to
figure out all right how do I deal with
it now how do I figure out all these
problems just not just warnings an error
but aberrant behavior we include a
completely integrated debugging
experience the full featured debugger
for the sea dialects for Java either
applescript with all the common
operations you would expect the ability
to step through things to pause through
things look at things introspect things
it's very very feature which includes a
lot of new features we include things
like in line break points set of
brighten the gutter move them around
move the pc back up and try things again
a complete graphical interface to look
at things like a thread view in a stack
view look at all your different
variables with custom data for matters
even based on your type to look at the
information you want in the debugger
also some new features the Global's
browser which maybe you saw yesterday in
Ted's keno they look at global variables
for your application a memory viewer to
go ahead and look at memory points for
your application and see exactly what's
going on when you build even the ability
to look at disassembly and see the
different things that are in your
application but there's lots of other
integrated debugging features things
like data for matters as I said before
the ability to take a particular piece
of information in the variable view and
customize it you may know something
about it you want to format it or
summarized in such a way that's easier
for your workflow we provide a lot of
those by default for the carbon data
types which you can actually go ahead
and do those for your own data types as
well but much like with the build system
we also pride them provide you features
that get you up to speed get your
running get you very productive as
productive as possible with a debugging
experience one of those it's fiction
continue how many of you actually use to
fiction continue not enough it's a very
very good feature six me continue allows
you to take a running application that
you're debugging make changes with a
source code change the application on
the fly and keep running so go ahead and
patch the running application things
like logic errors errors of trial and
error we need to try something over and
over and over again your application
takes a long time to compile or takes a
while to start up you don't have to go
through that just for a simple change I
forgot a semicolon there or that was
supposed to be two instead of one the
ability to go ahead and fix your running
application and get it back up to speed
is very very useful and I've encouraged
you guys all to try other things like
remote debugging we saw a demonstration
yesterday oh
a game developer debugging an
application running on one machine with
a debugger running on the other is
extremely useful though full full screen
applications but also applications that
have lots of intricate event handling
things like mouse clicks and keys and
highlights and stuff the ability to
track those let your application deal
with it in such a way that it's not
affecting by the debugger popping up or
her break point being set but still
being able to debug your application
like you normally would it works exactly
like it would on your son your one
machine so the bugger experience is
exactly the same which you take you
leverage the fact that you have two
separate machines and something included
now which is called guard malik the
ability to actually use the fact that we
know when bad things happen to your
memory and we're actually going to show
those to you when there are memory
access errors we're actually in a thrown
exception and say you know what this is
a problem you need to go and look at it
so it's a great debugging feature i want
to show you a quick debugging demo and
what some of these features look like so
we have the application that i just got
done building here so this is the same
Boing application I'm just going to go
ahead and launch it onto the debugger so
it just says you know go ahead and
debugging probably news they build again
since it's already built and it's going
to go ahead in a second here but the
bugger is going to start up and we'll
see what it looks like so right now we
are going through and debugging our
application now I've scripted my
application demo here in a very very
specific way to talk about what happens
when we're dealing with the beta
software all right now we release beta
software just as much as you do things
happen now this is a really important
point is that this panel right here is
your gateway to salvation because it's
your way of giving us information the
ability to go ahead and say report to
click on this and say look here's the
crash information for xcode here's what
happened you know you have lots of power
your fingertips to fill out exactly what
happened or what you're doing here and
click Submit and give us that
information even more to the point were
you nice ADC developers and you want to
actually take advantage of the fact that
we have this little website called bug
reporter you can actually go in and file
a bug take that stack serious
information and put it in the bug
because the fact is on the benefits of
our application the feedback that we get
on our application shows and what we
were
to you guys the better feedback that we
get the better the product is when it
comes back out so I encourage you I can
only speak to my application but I would
implore you that we're something not
that it happened but we're something to
happen in Xcode where you get this panel
I'd implore you to please submit that
information please from this a bug
report so that we can show you what's
going on with it so now that the little
public service announcement is done
let's go back to the demo and go back to
the application here so now I'm just
going to go ahead and let's just clean
the application again show you the nice
build system at work and we're to go
ahead and build into bug so again we'll
watch the application compile here and
we'll watch it come back up this time in
the debugger much as we would expect so
now it's going to go ahead and run
you'll see that the application launches
and it's running down here in this nice
little window it's a little bouncing
ball try and bring it up here and I can
actually make it a little bit bigger for
you guys to see so there's there's my
little bouncing ball now I can go back
into my application and say I know that
most of this is happening in the Boeing
view class and I'm going to do is just
go back up here to the top and I know
that most of the work is getting done in
the draw rect so I'm just going to go
ahead and click in the gutter here and
create a breakpoint so that's actually
got to load the file and debugger and
we'll just work from there for now so
here we see that the application is
stopped in the debugger keeps the
debugger view of here's the thread view
of what's going on here's the variable
view of the information that corresponds
to that particular frame i can go ahead
and select on different frames and see
the variable information in this
particular frame i can also note that we
have some value information that uses
some of our data for matters for example
in this particular case we have an NS
wrecked here that's showing the origin
and a size so i could expand this we see
that this wrecked has the origin and the
sides would seem to meet it and here are
the values and you're probably asking
well how does 10 of these values get
formatted these are the data for matters
so I'm going to go ahead and double
click on this value you'll see that we
have a little bit of a formatting that
goes in here and I could go ahead and
even change that formatting just say the
origin is and you'll note that the Rex
changes because those data for matters
are all packed up so if i set a data
format on this particular case on the
origin anywhere that uses an origin
including a wrecked
gets the value of that it's the benefit
of that so you can set for matters on
things where you want to see different
pieces of information you want to look
at something in the variable view you
don't have to go ahead and inspect it or
go to the console to debug it you can go
ahead and format those elements show
them right there so let's go ahead and
look at some of the other controls that
are up here we can go ahead and continue
through we paused right here on our
break point we go ahead and step over a
particular element go ahead and keep
stepping through my application I can
open up and look at more elements for
the timid debugger but we can go ahead
and do that or we just go ahead and kick
continue going to hit my break one
against I'm going to go ahead and unset
that and continue along the merry way
let's show you some of the elements that
we talked about like six and continue
for example I'm looking at this you know
red is just not the color I'm looking
for I really want something else so I've
actually set some nice little bookmarks
in this file to go ahead and jump right
to a particular point and we see that
right here is where the colors for that
panel are this panel define right now
it's red it's RGB value and I can just
go ahead and change those values from
let's from red blue I'm going to go
ahead and save that file and now I'm
going to go up here and click six so
while my application is running when I
hit the Fix button it's going to go
ahead and compile it going to go ahead
and now my ball is blue applications
still running but I'm changing values so
that my application is using I can do
other things like changing simple things
like I don't upset the background color
I think that that background color is
way too dark let's just go ahead and
change the value here save that again
again while the application is running
go ahead and click fix and now we're
changing the value now these are just
simple values that we're changing it
doesn't look that complex but the
ability to try things out like this to
do trial and error things while the
application is running is very very
useful let's do something a little more
complex for example there's something
here called a light factor when I hit
the L key it's actually must start
applying a light factor to the side of
this cube and you'll see that the cube
gets a little bit darker a problem is I
have no way of undoing the way they
implemented it was it just starts the
shading and there's no way to change
that value you've actually see the code
is actually right here whereas it's
drawing it says if I'm supposed to do
this increase the light factor over time
until we get to one and that's it
there's no way to undo this so let me
actually show you modify
buying this code while it's running
something more than just little logic
values well to do this that the problem
is I want to be able to cycle back and
forth between the light value and the
non light value so I'm going to go ahead
and add this other boolean in here
called do light increase and I'm going
to go ahead and say that well in this
particular case if our light factor is
if we're increasing then I certainly
want to make that the light factor
increase just the way it was before so
we'll say the light factor still
increases by point 05 but if it's not
what I want to do is I want to decrement
the value so we're going to use this
boolean to track whether the in flight
is increasing or decreasing so in this
particular case I need to say well if we
are increasing and the light factor is
over 1 just stop at one don't go over
and above that but now I need to add a
little else clause in here that says
well if I'm not increasing i'm actually
going down and i don't want to go below
zero because i don't want to say it out
completely then just select a value to 0
and we'll be done so now I've just added
some code to go ahead and allow its
ability to cycle between whether this is
how the light factor or not one last
thing I actually need to change was that
there's the keystroke at the bottom here
or we actually go ahead and click the
key it's right here where you see if I
hit L it says do light equals yes and in
this case i want to say well i only want
you to do we use some code completion to
get that value for this i only want you
to increase if the lights factor is
already at 0 otherwise i just want you
to decrease so we're going to go ahead
and set that up save that and now i'm
going to go ahead and click fix so while
this is running we're gonna go ahead and
sticks that and now it should be able to
come back here hit l and turn the
shading off so the ability to add need
of different instance variables change
the logic to your application while it's
running makes it very very useful to
debug there's some simple things we
could do we could go ahead and if we
want this all to end very very quickly I
can just take the animation change the
velocity by which this is running to
something much much quicker and make the
ball stop for all of it so let's show it
if some of the other elements to our
application while it's still running
showing you a couple other things
features that we didn't should talk
about yesterday but are worth showing is
something like the memory browser so
what if I
a look at different pieces of memory in
my application I want to look at
something you know something interesting
we allow you to go ahead and let's just
go ahead and let's just pause this and
here's a memory viewer this is not my
particularly favorite view but I know a
lot of people are looking for this kind
of information to being able to actually
step through your memory and look at
different pieces of information to look
at all sorts of things this is for you
we're happy to provide it there are
other things like even a console view if
you're if you love the console view and
you want to live there we provide a
quick and easy access this way to get to
it so we try to provide you the best of
all worlds functionality get you up to
speed with what you're looking at from
the bugging features from simple things
like looking at variables to fixing your
application while it's running or
looking at memory the ability to take
your application figure out what's wrong
and get back to what's important so
these are some of the quick debugging
features we have a complete
demonstration of debugging on Thursday
so we go back to the slides there's a
complete session on this on thursday
morning at nine o'clock again in this
room debugging in xcode that encourage
you guys all to go to for more
information another thing that's
important once we're building and
debugging our application is working
with other people source control
management for those of you are using
Xcode you may not have realized that
source control management in there
because it's actually integrated it's
immersed in the IDE and all number of a
large number of places you'll see it in
visualization columns in the outline
view in the detail view you'll see it in
a smart group of showing you all the
things that have changed we have a
complete SVM window for showing you all
the things that have changed in your
product and looking too messy n log and
we also have inspectors to allow you
look at different revisions and track
things and compare things based on a
particular file now we support all the
common commands from the IDE the ability
to look at annotations to update to
discard changes to look at revisions
annotations dis these are all available
in the IDE but from menus and context
menus right at your fingertips as was
announced yesterday we are happy to
support now subversion as one of our cm
systems fully integrated in Xcode what
I'd like to do is show you that in right
now so let's just take the same project
that I was working on
for a quick second I'm going to go ahead
and stop the debugger cuz I don't really
need that anymore and you guys are
probably gonna remember to do this so
I'll close that window so now I'm in my
application and you see me make changes
do you solemnly make some changes for
fixed and continued question is how do I
know that I've made those changes well
one way to do it is to customize the
view here I could go ahead and customize
the panel here by control clicking on
the header and I can select svm and
we'll see that it tells me that the
products project has changed and as I
expand things we also see that there are
other files that has changed I can
actually go ahead and add the SCM column
over here if I want to look at in the
detail view so I can see it in either of
both of these views but if you want to
look at all the SCM information in one
place there are two ways to do it if you
want to look at it in the project view
you can go ahead and select the SCM
smart group and now we're going to
filter on all the files that have some
kind of SCM status whether it's modified
changed conflict whatever it is this is
gonna be the one-stop place you want to
go and look at it we can also though
bring that up in a separate window so I
can bring up under the SCM menu the SCM
window and show it to you here so here
all the files that have changed and i
see that i have the files that i changed
and that i have my user file in the
project file let's go ahead and look at
something interesting about what these
files are so let's go ahead and select a
file here and I'm going to go ahead and
bring up the inspector for this
particular file and you see that there's
an SVM tab and when I click on this
you'll note that here is as the SCM
history so I have the revision history
I've my name the date and I have a
message so i can go ahead and look at
different pieces of information so let's
take the version we have and let's
compare it to something from nine nine
o'clock this morning and i can click on
disk so what's going to do is take the
version i have on disk go and grab the
selected version from a repository and
here's a diff so i can go ahead and put
this into a bug i can send this to
someone as changes I've made very very
quick and easy way to compare revisions
but actually that was more actually that
was just dissing comparing a vision to
something much different but much more
compelling let's go ahead and before we
do that let's look at annotations say i
look at this other version and say you
know what i really wish I knew who made
those changes because that just just
doesn't seem right to me
if I can go ahead and grab this file
here this revision here and I could go
up under the Norman I could go up under
the SCM menu but for some reason it's
now unavailable what's while it's
thinking about that let's try and
compare so instead of doing an
annotation I'm gonna go ahead and click
compare and you'll note that now we're
going to bring it up in file merge so
file emerge takes those two versions but
one I have on disk and the one that's in
my repository and brings it up in a way
that I can look at the diff pretty
seemed pretty quickly any pretty easily
now in addition to external editor
support we also have external support
for different kinds of SCM access and
for those of you who may be like the
bbedit style of file merging we're going
to go ahead and apply that and I'm going
to go ahead and dip it again our compare
it against a different versions you'll
now note that bbedit launches I want to
stun grabbing those revisions now is to
be the edit style comparison so
depending on what your flavor is we can
go ahead and pull up either one of us if
I were to go back in here and grab my
element we can actually go now and look
at the annotations so let me grab a
particular source file say grab the
latest for that and it's going to take
that and pull it up in an editor and
here is the annotation response for this
particular file there haven't been that
many changes I've only made a few
changes but as we scroll through you can
see what revision was changed and by
whom now you might be asking well these
revision numbers look really kind of
strange i don't know that i've seen
these before one thing that we actually
pride ourselves on is the fact that all
of our SDM functionality is seamless it
also feels the same so you may not have
been noticing but this is actually using
subversion so if we pull up our little
status window here and I can just go
ahead and zoom in for you right there
you'll note that user local subversion
bin X to the N this is all done using
sir version so same thing is CVS acts
like CVS commands in Xcode but it's
using the power of subversion so the
fact that you can't tell the difference
is actually a win for us and makes it
feels like we've done the right job of
not making things all different based on
different SCM systems
so we can actually just go ahead and
once we're done let's just actually show
the very simple thing of go ahead and
selecting a couple files go ahead and
committing the changes and say this was
in the demo go ahead and commit those go
ahead and commit those to the repository
you know that they go ahead and leave
the view and they've been committed
simple SCM actions simple things that
your daily workflow probably requires
doesn't require to leave the IDE so
that's just a quick visit of visual of
source code management there's more on
this in the presentation tomorrow if you
guys want to learn more information we
have one final topic that will go back
to the slides for and that's integrated
profiling tools how many of you guys
have used profiling tool in here shark
Malik debug Stampler these are extremely
useful tools that are bi platform
provides we have lots of different tools
probably different aspects of
introspection for your applications
things like Malik debug looking at the
debug for your application figuring out
where things are going on sampler and
spin control of figuring out what your
application is doing it doesn't seem to
be responsive it doesn't see me be doing
what I want it to or it seems to be
hanging shark as well as being able to
look at all the things that your
projects is doing all the things your
apps are doing even all the things your
system was doing at the same time to go
ahead and look at those and find a way
to make your application as performing
as possible there are complete sessions
on this there was actually one this
morning on profiling tools and there's
one later this week on shark but I want
to give you a quick view on two of these
tools and what they look like so the
last demo here is going to go through
and show two of the profiling tools so
what I'm going to go ahead and do is
going to quickly rebuild my app because
I made changes with zero link and I want
to make sure that we've actually built
those into the application but under the
debug menu we'll see what there is
launched using performance tool and
there's a couple here let's just go
ahead and pick object Alex first what's
going to go ahead and do is it's going
to go ahead and launch object Alex for
me and it's going to configure object
Alex to go ahead and launch my
application so you see that object Alec
comes up it already knows about where my
application lives I can go ahead and hit
the little play button here and tell it
what I wanted to do and now it's going
to go ahead and launch my application
and start looking at it start looking at
all the things that are being allocated
in this
right now we have live updating going on
and I can start scaling this back so you
can start see what the allocations are
how they're being projected to your
application and you can start to figure
out where the leaks are happening where
you may be creating think more things
and you really need to where things can
be trimmed down a little bit quick and
easy way we've already built the app
launched it in object alec but it makes
it really easy to test and see how your
application is working but say you want
to do something a little bit more
complex fulness so you want to figure
out not just where things are being
allocated but where you're spending the
most time to do this we're going to go
ahead and use shark the same way we're
going to go ahead and launch shark to be
pre-configured to know where our
application is go ahead and say ok and
it's going to start off our application
it's shark is now sampling up here we
can go ahead and click stop and it's
going to go ahead and take all the
samples that it just found from our
application and bring up a look at this
view how many you guys have you shark I
would implore you guys to all to take a
look at it may seem a little complex
from the beginning but it's a very very
simple application to use and it
provides a lot of information about what
your app is doing about the ability to
go and look at even just the things that
you have source for and to go ahead and
drill down into I'm spending thirty four
percent of my time in this draw rect
particular function we can see that
based on where the shading is of where
you're spending the most amount of time
doesn't take that much effort to go
ahead and look at this but it provides
you a vast amount of information about
where you can improve your application
so just a quick overview of launching a
couple of performance tools if we go
back to the slides again there are
complete sessions on this there is one
on friday in the afternoon on actually
using shark to work with your
application this is what we do all day
is x coding is providing you a set of
tools to work for all kinds of different
development projects to help you guys
bring things the mac OS 10 platform and
as we talked before we're providing you
two ways to do that today to be very
clear xcode one dot five is on Panther
the beta release that we'd love to get
your feedback on xcode 20 is on tiger
it's a preview and you can see that
number of features that are in each the
difference being the workspace layouts
and the design tools on tiger are just
some of the differences from the major
differences between those two but we'd
love to get your feedback on both
versions on the
different X conversions that you guys
want to try there are lots of ways you
can get more information about Xcode
there are lots of other sessions this
week Matt Formica is going to be the
contact for you guys for other things
that you might want to know about Xcode
and we'll bring him back up on stage
right now to go through a little bit of
a QA